H​ow can Apache Spark fit into a data application? Include specific Spark functionalities that can be applied in a data application.

	Apache Spark is an open source software that allows big data analysis through clusters.
	Spark, which is coded in Scala, makes it possible to process data from data sources such as Hadoop Distributed File System, NoSQL databases, or relational data stores.
	It has a huge role to play in big data application. 

	The main spark functinalities which help in big data application include:
	1. Distributed compution using partitions of data allows for extremely fast processing of big data.
	2. The dataframe framework of driver node and executor nodes.
	3. Adaptive Query execution (AQE)
	4. Essential file formats such as parquet
	5. Data lakehouses which are the best of both worlds (Data warehouse and lakes)

W​hy is parallelism important and how does Spark parallelize tasks? Provide at least two specific examples for each.

	Paralleism in big data processing is extrmely essential since it gives us faster processing ability.  
	A task is parallelized in Spark using a driver Node and many executor nodes. How the task is split across these different nodes in the cluster depends on the types of data structures 	that you’re using. 

	Examples of this are the following:
	1. We used the fireCalls dataset in the course multiple times. We saw how we can split the counting of the number of entries into 8 different paritions and saw a live example of how 	spark parallizes tasks.
	2. We used a groupby in our fireCalls dataset. This saw narrow and wide transofrmation which was a type of parallelism done by spark itself.

3. W​hat is a DataFrame in Spark and how is it different from a SQL table? Provide at least two specific examples for each.

	A Spark DataFrame is a distributed collection of daa organised into columns. 
	It is an integrated data structure with an easy-to-use API for simplifying distributed big data processing.
	A SQL table is a type of structured data which can be queried usid the SQL language
	
	Difference:
	1. A SQL table stores data. Spark is NOT A DATABASE. IT is not for storage of data. DataFrame technology is used for distributed compute of the the data provided by a database.
	2. A SQL table cannot have unstructured data such as images and videos. However, Spark dataframe can work with unstructured data as well.